Title:<br/>
<b>MACD time series analysis in Python</b>

Description:<br/>
<p>In time series analysis, such as in stock market, detecting shifts in trends is crucial for efficient decision-making. One such example is the very popular Moving Average Convergence/Divergence (MACD) metric, which has been heavily used as a guideline, especially in short-selling strategies.</p>
<p>MACD is based on Exponential Moving Average (EMA) or simply "exponential smoothing". In summary, EMA is just a way of aggregating a series of running values as they are generated, giving more weight to the more recent time steps instead of just taking a typical (arithmetic) mean value over a fixed time frame.</p>
<p>In terms of Signal Processing, both EMA and MACD are auto-regressive processes of order 1, i.e., AR(1). These assume only limited association between successive time steps, the scale of which is determined by a linear factor (1-a). Furthermore, no exogenous factor is taken into account here, not even a generic "noise" factor in the EMA equation above. And coefficient (a) is assumed to be constant throughout the process. In the real world, none of these assumptions are valid.</p>
<p>In fact, there is also a time shift or "phase difference" regarding the exact positions where MACD is supposed to mark volatilty shifts. This means that the MACD signal is always delayed, usually by 3–4 or more time points depending on the exact value of α, because that is the way all linear filters work, including EMA. Hence, the assumption is that, if MACD is applied to a time series of sufficienlty high resolution, then a proper and informed decision can be made at a much larger time scale, provided that the process does not "move" much faster within that time frame. If MACD can provide hints in the order of 5–10 minutes, then decisions can be assisted when made in the order of an hour or so.</p>
