Title:<br/>
<b>USAR team rotations in Operations in ECLiPSe</b>

Description:<br/>
<p>This is a simple yet realistic demonstration of how domain-specific logic programming can be used to effectively model and solve complex everyday problems in process optimization, planning, scheduling, resource allocation, timetabling, transport, etc. ECLiPSe is the most popular choice for Costraint Logic Programming (CLP), initially developed in 1992 by ECRC, Cisco Systems, et.al., and it is still in use today. It is the epitomy of logic programming, integrating a full version (superset) of Prolog, extended with modeling and constraints idioms, plus a rich family of solver algorithms for combinatorial optimization, graph search and various types of costraints (integer, sets, schedulling, etc). The open-source platform also includes programming tools like code analyzer/profiler and embedding options with other languages (mostly via C). Details: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECLiPSe</p>
<p>In this example, Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) is used as a use case for demonstrating a typical constrained integer optimization (CIO) for scheduling problems. Specifically, in an USAR operational deployment of an organization there are 20 members with some of them having (one or more) three specialties. There are specific demands for team size and specialties in 9 shifts and there is a constraint of a slack of 2 'idle' rotations for rest. This program solves the related CIO problem, producing all valid solutions (select "more"). The code is a modified version of the "crew assignment problem": https://eclipseclp.org/examples/crew.ecl.txt</p>

